Hi, welcome to session 106 System-wide
Previews with Quick Look.
My name is Philippe Champeaux and
I have been working on the iOS part of
Quick Look for the last three years.
I will be joined on
stage by Julien Robert,
who is one of the two original
inventors of the Quick Look framework.
We are very excited to be
here in San Francisco today.
And I hope that our terrible
French accent won't be too much
of a problem for you today.
So what are we going to cover today?
Well, first, I will talk a bit about
what Quick Look is,
how it works,
and what you can use it for.
Then we will show you how you can use
Quick Look to display previews inside
your iOS and Mac OS X application.
After that,
I will show you how you can ask
Quick Look for thumbnails for
all your documents and files.
And finally,
Julien will show you how you can be part
of the Quick Look process by providing
a generator for your own document types.
So, what is Quick Look?
Well,
the goal of the Quick Look framework
is to display thumbnails
on previews of documents.
By default,
we support all the basic document types:
images, PDF, various text files,
QuickTime movies, audio files.
We also support out-of-the-box
iWork and Office documents.
In Mac OS X, Quick Look can also display
your documents if you
provide a generator for them.
Let me give you a few examples of places
where you can see Quick Look in action.
First, you can see it in your mail.
When you receive an email
with some attachments,
you can preview the attachment
right inside the mail application.
This is true both in Mac OS X and in iOS.
Another very good example is the Finder.
In this image,
you can see icons in the bottom window.
You can see flat thumbnails in the
Cover Flow view on the right window.
And you can see, of course,
the preview panel that you get
when you press the spacebar.
In iOS,
we have integrated Quick Look inside
the Safari application.
So if you are on the Internet browsing
to a Word document or a Pages document,
you don't have to save it.
You can preview it.
You can view it directly inside Safari.
In Mac OS X Lion,
we have also integrated Quick Look inside
the dock on the Spotlight menu.
So when you search for something,
if you have several matches,
you can preview the matches
before opening them.
It's very convenient.
Quick Look is a public framework
available in your applications.
This is a small Cookbook application
that we are going to use as an
example during this presentation
to show you how you can integrate
Quick Look inside your own applications.
So how does it work?
Well, Quick Look is divided
into two functional parts.
First, we have the producer,
which reads the file.
And then we have the consumer,
which displays the content
inside your application.
The goal of the producer is to translate
complex document types into something
that Quick Look can understand.
So it can be HTML, PDF, text,
images and movies.
It uses a plug-in architecture,
so when the user wants
to preview a document,
Quick Look will look for the associated
plug-in and load it on demand.
In Mac OS X,
we provide an Xcode template so
that you can write a generator
for your own document types.
The goal of the consumer is to display
the content inside your application.
There are two kinds of content.
First, we have rich content,
which we call previews,
which are displayed in the preview panel
and the preview view in Mac OS X and
in the preview controller in iOS.
In Mac OS X,
we also have a second type of content,
which are thumbnails.
Thumbnails are just static images which
represent the content of the document.
To summarize,
in Mac OS X we support previews,
thumbnails and we have this
public plugin architecture.
In iOS, for now,
we only support previews.
We don't really need thumbnails
anyway since there is very
little file manipulation in iOS.
So, now that you know what Quick Look is,
we will show you how you can
be a consumer for Quick Look.
How you can use Quick Look to display
previews inside your application.
And for that,
Julien will come on stage and show you
how you can use Quick Look in Mac OS X.
And I will come back after that
to show you how it works in iOS.
If you are only interested in iOS,
you should still pay attention to what
Julien is going to say because a lot of
stuff is common and I won't repeat it.
So please welcome Julien.
Thank you Philippe.
So we'll see how to display previews on
Mac OS X and more specifically on Lion.
So on Lion you have two choices
to display previews to the user.
First one is to display using a
panel that we call a preview panel.
This is a regular
subclass of an NS panel.
And there is one shared
panel per application.
So the policy of the panel
is to always show the current
selection in the key window.
So if this is changing,
the preview panel needs
to be updated accordingly.
But you may also want to use a
view that we call the Preview View.
And it's a regular subclass of NFVue,
so obviously you can have many of
these views in your application.
And as opposed to the Preview panel,
you are directly in control of
what's previewed in the view.
But let's first talk
about the Preview Panel.
In Lion, as you may have seen
in developer previews,
we have a new user interface
for the Preview Panel.
And I'd like to point a few new
features of this new interface.
So first,
when your application is displaying
the Preview Panel in your application,
and when your application
goes in the background,
the Preview Panel will stay
visible and will not hide anymore.
We also added some swipe gestures so that
the user can easily navigate through a
multi-selection in the preview panel.
And this works both in the
panel and in full screen.
And as you can see on the top
right of the preview panel,
there is a new open button that makes
it very easy for the user to open
the document inside the application.
And finally, the previews are not
done in a remote process,
meaning that if something
goes wrong with the preview,
your application will be unaffected.
So this is good for security
and for stability reasons.
So let's get technical now.
So to use a preview panel,
the first thing you want to
do is link against Quartz and
import the Quartz framework.
And you use a shared preview
panel to get this shared instance.
Then you want to display the panel.
Since it is a regular
subclass of NSPanel,
you just use NSWindow
APIs to order it in and out.
And there are also some
methods to make it full screen.
The last two methods work whether
the preview panel is already
visible or even if it's not.
And if it's not, it will go directly into
a full screen slideshow.
So as I said,
the preview panel is always displaying
the current selection in the Key Window.
So for example,
if the Key Window is changing, like that,
you can see that the panel
is updated to reflect the new
selection in the Key Window.
So how does this work?
Quick Look is listening for
changes in the responder chain.
If something is actually changing,
it will try to find a
controller for the panel.
To do that,
it will walk in the responder chain
and send this method to each object.
The first one that will reply
with "yes" will be elected as
the controller for the panel.
So this controller is sent this method
to notify it that it will really
begin to be controlling the panel.
And that's where setup should
happen on the preview panel.
And when the ownership of the preview
panel is given to another object,
the previews controller is
notified using this method.
So the important thing is to not assume
that you can do whatever you want
with the preview panel at any time.
And you are the owner only
after receiving the BEGIN method
and before the END method.
So, now that you are the controller
of the preview panel,
you want to display content in it,
obviously.
So we have very simple
data source methods.
So you first return the number of
items you want to display in the panel.
And then you will be called for
each index to return the item.
As you can see,
this is what we call a preview item.
If this is your existing data model
and you have custom objects in your
application to represent files,
you can directly give them to
Quick Look and to the preview panel,
providing that they implement
the actual preview item protocol.
So what is this protocol?
It's very simple.
Basically,
you just have to return the URL that
points to the file you want to preview.
And you may also be interested
to return a custom title to
display in the preview panel.
As a side note,
NSURL already implements this protocol,
so you can directly give URLs to the
preview panel if that fits your needs.
To open and close the panel,
we have standard shortcuts.
They are Command Y and Spacebar.
You can use either of those or both.
Another interesting thing is
that when the preview panel
is open in your application,
it's frontmost.
But you may want the user
to still be able to interact
with the view that is below.
So in that case,
you would implement this delegate method.
And if your view handles the event
in place of the preview panel,
you return yes.
So that the panel does
not undo the event again.
So the typical use case is, for example,
if you have a table view and you
want the user to be able to change
the selection with the arrow keys.
So you would use this technique.
[Transcript missing]
So to do that, we have delegate methods
that you should implement.
The first one will provide
a nice zoom effect from the
item to the preview panel.
And the second one,
if you return an image,
this will make a crossfade from
this image to the preview panel to
really make a beautiful transition.
So there is a content track.
So what is this content track?
If this is the transition image
you return in this method,
the content tracks correspond
to this area in the image.
So this is really the content of
the preview that we will match to
the content of the preview panel.
So that's all for the preview panel and
let's talk about the preview view now.
So as I say,
the preview view is just an S-view,
so you can unlock it like any other view.
But in Lion,
we've added an optional style
parameter that lets you customize
the look of the preview view.
So we currently have two styles.
The first style is the default
style and we display previews
with regular controls.
As you may have seen in Snow Leopard.
So in the example,
you can see there is a time slider
at the bottom of the preview.
This is more suited for full
previews with pretty large size.
But you may be interested with the
new style that we introduced in Lion,
which is what we call a compact style.
It's more suited for smaller
previews and things like inspectors,
but you may just prefer the look,
so you can use that anyway.
So in the example,
you can see that the movie
has rollover controls.
To provide content in the preview view,
it's much simpler than the
preview panel because there is a
property that you directly set.
Once you've done that,
the preview view will load the preview
in the background asynchronously.
But the thing you don't want
to do is to assume that as
soon as you set this property,
the preview is ready.
Because it may take time
to generate the preview.
And if the file that you are
previewing is modified while the
preview view is showing its preview,
you can ask the preview view to
reload by calling this method.
One important aspect of the preview
is to correctly manage its lifecycle.
So by default,
the preview view will be discarded
when the window containing
it is closed or when it's
removed from the view hierarchy.
So this is good for very simple cases.
But if your application manipulates
view in a bit more complicated way,
or if you want to reopen the
window containing the preview,
you should use manual mode instead.
And there, if you do that,
you are responsible to discard
the preview at the correct moment
by sending the close method.
So don't forget to do
that because if you don't,
some resources will not be allocated,
so you will see memory
growth in your application,
which is bad.
And in Lion,
we've introduced a new feature
that we call seamless opening.
So you may also have seen that
in the developer previews,
but just to show you.
So this is an icon in Finder,
and when the user double clicks on it,
You see that it zooms from the
icon to the document in preview,
like it zooms from the
icon to the preview panel.
So it's exactly the same animation.
So seamless opening is to get a smooth
transition from the icon or a preview
to the full document in the application.
And it integrates very well
with Quick Look and especially
the new open button that there
is now in the preview panel.
And the good thing about this
feature is that you can get it
for free because there is no API.
But there are a few conditions
that your application has to meet.
First, your application needs to have a
correct usage of NS Document APIs.
So there is an AppKit Lab this afternoon
if you want to check with them if
you are doing the correct things.
The second condition is that your
application needs to launch and
open the document quickly enough.
So quickly enough being
less than a second.
So I'd like to make a little demo
and show you how easy it is to adopt
Quick Look in a sample application.
So this is our sample cookbook
application that I will
briefly show you first.
This is a list of recipes and
then when we click on this button,
we would like to show the preview
panel with images and other stuff
that correspond to the recipe.
The second thing we want to do is when
we actually start making the recipe,
we would like to have an illustration in
this area to make the step more obvious.
To do that, we will use the preview view.
So let's first add support
for the preview panel.
So when we click on the top
right image in the application,
this method is called.
So the first thing we want to do
is to order in the preview panel.
So we get the shared instance
and order it in if it's not
visible or out if it is already.
And the preview panel
works with a controller.
So the next thing we will do is to add
Method to set ourselves as a
controller for the preview panel.
So we accept to be the controller
and when we actually begin to be it,
we set ourselves as data
source and delegate.
So we need to implement the data
source and delegate protocol.
So let's just declare that we do.
And then we will implement
the data source methods.
So we have here an array and we
just return the number of items
in this array and return the
object as the index in the array.
Pretty simple.
And the last thing we want to do
Because Quick Look accepts
objects that implement the
actual preview item protocol,
we will implement this
protocol in our objects.
In this case, the objects are steps.
[Transcript missing]
For the URL, we just return the location
of the file on the disk.
For the title,
we return the name of the recipe
instead of the name of an image.
The interesting thing is that this object
is shared with the iOS demo application
that Philippe will show you later.
So since we already
implemented this protocol,
he won't have to do that.
So let's run now and see how it goes.
So when I click here, I get my medias and
I can swipe between them.
So this is a new Lion feature.
So it's working okay.
It's just missing the
zoom as you may have seen.
So we will implement that.
And to do that, we will add the delegate
methods like that.
So we get the frame of our image button.
Then it's just some calls to
adjust with the ratio of the image.
And we convert this frame to
screen coordinates and return that.
But we want also to
use a transition image.
So we just return the image
in the button to have a fade
from this image to the panel.
And now if we try again.
So we have a much nicer transition
that really highlights that
the preview is from this item.
So we are done with the preview
panel implementation and now we will
do the preview view implementation.
So the first thing we want to do
with the preview is to create it,
of course.
For the demo,
we will use the new style in Lion,
that is Compact Style,
so we will have rollover controls.
So once it's created and
added to the view hierarchy,
we want to set the content
of the preview view.
So to do that,
we will use bindings and bind the preview
item property of the preview view to
the selected step in our table view.
And we don't forget to unbind it.
So that should be enough
to have our steps.
Let's see.
So it's working correctly,
but there are still a few
things that we could improve.
Well first,
the movies do not play automatically.
So since the controls are on rollover,
we can't see easily that it's a movie.
So we want them to start automatically.
And the second thing, so if we change to
another recipe and back,
it's crashing because as you can see,
it says that we try to set a preview item
on the preview that's already closed.
So this is the typical thing that
happens when you are using the
automatic mode of the preview lifecycle.
So this is a good example of
using manual mode because when
we switch to another recipe,
the view is removed from the
view hierarchy and it's added
again later so it's not working
because it's killed automatically.
So let's use that.
And don't forget to close
the preview when we are done.
So in this case,
that's when the application terminates.
Let's also autoplay the
movies and run again.
So start cooking and now you can see
that the movies play automatically.
And that if I switch to
another recipe and back,
it's still working.
So this concludes our implementation
of Quick Look in Mac OS X.
And I will just sum it up what you need
to do to implement Preview Panel Support.
So first you need to import a
link against the Quartz framework.
You need to add calls to open
and close the preview panel.
Then you need to implement the controller
methods to get your object to be
the controller of the preview panel.
And of course implement
the data source methods.
Once you've done that,
you will want to make
sure that the selection,
when the selection is changing,
you correctly update the Preview
Panel by sending reload data.
Finally,
you want to have the zoom animation,
so you will implement the two
delegate methods that we just showed.
And that's all what you need.
And to talk about previewing in iOS,
I will call back Philippe on stage.
So, now that you have seen
how it works in Mac OS X,
let's compare this to iOS.
Well, like I said, in iOS,
it works exactly the same as
in Mac OS X for the most part.
And in particular, the model and the data
source are the same.
What changes is the way
you present the preview.
Fortunately, it is a bit easier.
It is easier for two reasons.
First, in iOS,
every application is full screen.
So you only see one
application at a time.
This means that we don't need
on iOS the Shared Preview
Panel that we have in Mac OS X.
The second reason is that we have those
very nice UI View Controllers in iOS.
So they are very easy to
use and very powerful.
So we chose to make the Preview
Panel a subclass of UI View Controller.
We named it QL Preview Controller.
So this means that since it is
a standard UI view controller,
you will use the methods that you
already know to present them on screen.
It's a very standard API.
And in the end,
it will integrate perfectly
in all the iOS workflows.
The Preview Controller supports all the
same basic document types as in Mac OS X.
It also has an open button like in Lion.
As a bonus, we also support printing.
If you want to add support for
printing inside your iOS application,
all you have to do is present
a Preview Controller and
Quick Look will take care of the rest.
In iOS 5, we are introducing a new way to
navigate between multiple documents.
Now when you are full-screen on the iPad,
you can swipe between items exactly
like in the photo application.
It says that we can swipe between all
documents supported by Quick Look.
So, for example,
from a spreadsheet to an image, to a PDF,
to a movie, to whatever you want.
We are also introducing a new way
to navigate inside long documents.
If you have, for example,
a 50-pages document,
when you show the navigation bar,
you now get the thumbnail scrubber
on the right side of the screen,
which lets you directly select
the page that you want to go to.
So if you want to go to
the bottom of the document,
you don't have to scroll, unscroll,
unscroll endlessly.
You can tap directly to the
page which interests you.
So how do you use the Preview Controller?
Well, like I said,
it's very close to the desktop.
There are just a few changes
that I am going to highlight.
First, you don't click against quarts.
You link directly against
the Quick Look framework.
Since we don't have a
shared preview panel in iOS,
you have to create your
own preview controller.
Create it with
QLPreviewController.alloc.init.
Set yourself as data source.
Optionally,
you can set yourself as delegate if you
want to customize the zoom animation.
To present it, since it is a subclass
of UI View Controller,
you use the methods that you already
know with UI View Controllers.
Either present model
View Controller animated or
push View Controller animated.
The one you will use
depends on your context.
If you have a navigation
controller already,
you should probably push the
preview controller inside
the navigation controller.
If you don't,
you can present modally and then the
view will slide up in the iPhone and
be presented full screen on the iPad.
When your Preview
Controller is on screen,
you then have to provide content.
And we use the exact same data
source model as in Mac OS X.
The only difference is that
since we have a Preview
Controller instead of a Preview Panel,
we had to rename a bit those methods.
We have a number of preview items
in Preview Controller and Preview
Controller preview item at index.
This returns the same preview
item object that is in Mac OS X.
We have the same Zoom Animation Delegate
method as on Mac OS X,
which are
PreviewController.frameForPreviewItem
in Source View and
PreviewController.TransitionImage
for PreviewItem content-right.
If you have paid attention to
what Julien said a bit earlier,
you may notice that there is
a new Source View parameter
in the first method.
This is because in iOS,
everything can be rotated,
so we really need a reference
view to make sure that we
are in the good coordinate.
So let me show you how it works in iOS.
I'm going to use an iOS,
iPhone and iPad version of the
Quick Look application that Julie used.
On the desktop.
So it is a very standard
iOS Application.
On the iPhone,
it uses a navigation controller
To show first the list of recipes
and then when we click on a recipe,
the list of the steps.
What we want is to show the detail of the
step when you click on one of the steps.
So let's do this.
So first we have to create
our own Preview Controller.
So we import Quick Look.
We declare our controller.
And then we're going to add an accessor
to create the controller on demand.
Now we want to show the Preview
Controller when the user taps on one
of the rows of the list of steps.
So we're going to implement
the TableViewDelegate method
TableViewDidSelectRowAtIndexPath.
We retrieve the Preview Controller and we
push it inside the Navigation Controller.
As you can see,
Xcode is not happy because
we haven't implemented the
QLPreviewController data source protocol.
Since Julien already
implemented the QLPrivateItem
protocol in the Steps objects,
I don't have to implement them again.
So we return, we use ordered steps which
contains the list of our steps.
We return the number of steps
on the step at index here.
So this should be enough to show
If I tap on the first step,
I get the list of ingredients.
But it's still not working perfectly.
As you can see,
if I tap on one other step,
I always see the first step.
This is because before
pushing the button,
To set the Preview Controller in
the Navigation Controller,
I should make sure that we
are showing the correct step.
I'm going to use CurrentPreviewItemIndex
to set it to the row of the index path.
And now, when I tap on any of the steps,
I can see
and the other speakers.
Now let's have a look at the iPad.
On the iPad,
we are using a USB View controller
to show the list of recipes on the
left and then the steps on the right.
What we want is to zoom the small image,
the plate image to full screen
to show the steps full screen.
In this case,
we don't want to push inside
the navigation controller.
We want to present manually.
I'm going to delete this method
and replace it with a check.
If we have a navigation controller,
we're going to push inside
the navigation controller.
This is the iPhone case.
But if we don't have a
navigation controller,
this means that we're on the iPad
and we're going to present modality.
So let's try again.
Now if I tap on one of the attachments,
I get the full screen preview.
I can swipe between my items,
can view the videos,
swipe to another one.
But I still miss the zoom effect,
so I need to implement
the delegate method.
First, I set myself as delegate.
And then I implement the
two delegate methods.
What we want is to zoom from the
image from the UI Table View cell
to the full screen.
So I'm going first to retrieve the
index of the item from the steps.
Then I retrieve the UI Table View cell
from the Table View.
When I have the cell,
I can get the image view.
Then I can use this image view
as source view and return the
bounds of this image view.
Then for the zoom,
I can return the image directly
inside the image view to
have this nice transition.
Let's see how it works.
If I tap on one of the attachments,
I get the nice zoom effect.
There are a few things that you
should and shouldn't do when
you use a preview controller.
First, and this one might sound obvious,
make sure that your delegate
exists until the end.
In particular, on the iPad,
we have two delegate methods which are
called at the end of the zoom animation.
First,
we have preview controller will dismiss,
and at the very end,
we have preview controller did dismiss.
So if you set yourself a delegate,
make sure that your delegate exists
until at least did dismiss is called.
Then do not set yourself
as a preview item.
The reason for that is that
Quick Look will retain the preview item.
So if you are a preview item yourself,
we will retain you, you will retain us,
and you will enter a return cycle.
So in the end,
you will leak both your ViewController
and the PreviewController.
Finally, do not try to customize
the navigation bar.
In iOS, the top UI view controller
owns the navigation bar.
So if you put something when
you push the preview controller,
don't be surprised if we just remove it
and replace it by our own action button.
So this concludes the previewing
part of this presentation.
And now I'm going to
talk about sunnellings.
And like I said at the beginning,
thumbnails only exist in Mac OS X.
What are thumbnails?
A thumbnail is a static image which
represents the content of a document.
We have two kinds of thumbnails.
First,
we have what we call flat thumbnails.
On a flat thumbnail, just give a quick
overview of the content.
Then we have icons.
An icon is a flat thumbnail with
added decorations which emphasize
the file aspect of the document.
So you can see here the page curl
on the PDF or the reflection on
the letterbox on the movie icon.
Flats and nails can be
very high resolution,
so they are perfect for
inspectors or for preview pen.
And they are also very useful
if you want to integrate them
inside some more fancy views like
we did with the Coverflow view.
Icons, on the other hand,
are better fitted for
collection of items.
So if you want to show a
browser view or list view,
you should use icons.
Since they are much more
physical than thumbnails,
they make perfect file handles.
If you want to show the user
that he can click on an item
or drag and drop the icon,
you should use file handles.
So what are the APIs to
retrieve thumbnails?
We have two APIs.
First,
we have a very basic synchronous API.
You just call ql_thumbnail_image_create,
you pass the URL of your file,
you pass the maximum size that you need,
and you pass some options.
This returns the thumbnail
as a CG image ref.
As an option,
you can set icon mode to True and
this will tell Quick Look to
add all the icon decorations.
Be careful that this
is a synchronous API,
so it may take time to return.
We try to be as fast as possible,
but of course some documents
are more complex than others,
and we don't control all the generators.
So don't call this in the main thread.
To simplify things,
we have added an asynchronous
API which uses GCD.
You first have to create a QLSumbnailRef
object with QLSumbnailCreate.
You pass the same arguments
as the previous function,
so the URL,
the maximum size and the options.
And then you dispatch the request
with QLThumbnailDispatcherSync.
When the completion block is called,
you can call QLThumbnailCopyImage
and this will return the thumbnail.
You could also call copyImage directly
without calling dispatch async,
but then of course the function will
block until the thumbnail is generated.
One thing that you shouldn't do is call
dispatch async and then call copyImage
before the completion block is called.
That just wouldn't work.
You can cancel the generation of
the thumbnail with QSumnailCancel.
This API also provides a nice utility
method which returns the content trait.
Like Julien explained,
the content trait is the exact frame
of the content inside the icon.
You don't usually need this information,
but you can pass it to Quick Look with
the zoom delegate method.
Then Quick Look will be able to zoom
perfectly from the icon to the preview
panel or from the icon to full screen.
And now we are done with the
consumer part of Quick Look.
And Julien will come back on stage
and show you how you can be part of
the Quick Look process and write a
generator for your own documents.
So let's now see how you
can extend Quick Look to
support your document types.
First, let's see an overview of how
Quick Look plug-ins are working.
Quick Look plugins are living in the
process that is called sandboxed.
This means that some
operations are not permitted,
like network access or file access
to something that is not the file
you are previewing or sumnaling.
If something bad happens,
there will be a log in the console,
so check for logs.
But you shouldn't have
to do what's forbidden.
So when Quick Look receives
a request from the client to
generate a thumbnail or a preview,
it sends this request to the daemon,
which chooses the correct
plug-in to reply to this request.
The plugin generates the thumbnail or the
preview and sends it back to Quick Look,
which then fulfills the request
to the client application.
So let's see how you implement
your Quick Look plugin.
Once you've created your new
project from the Xcode template,
you will see two function prototypes
that you have to implement.
One for thumbnails and one for previews.
So first let's focus on thumbnails.
So you have a couple of few arguments,
but the main ones are the thumbnail
request and the URL pointing to the file
that you want to generate a preview for.
So you have two ways to
reply to this request.
The first way is if you already
have the thumbnail ready in form
of an image of a data or URL,
you give it back directly
using one of the set functions
and then Quick Look will
send it back to the client.
But the other option is if
you want to draw the thumbnail
live inside your plug-in.
So in this case, you create a CG context.
You draw in this context like any regular
CG context and then when you are done,
you flash the context to tell
Quick Look that the thumbnail
is ready to send back.
For previews, it is very similar.
So the prototype is the same.
And similarly, you have two ways to reply
to a preview request.
If you already have the
preview in form of data or URL,
you can directly use the set
data or set URL representation
and give back your preview to
Quick Look specifying the content type
of the data or URL you are giving.
And the other solution is to draw the
preview live using the Create Context
method and Flash Context method.
Except that for previews,
you have another option,
which is to create a PDF context.
So this will allow you to
create a preview with multiple
pages using Core Graphics,
Begin Page and End Page functions.
So you flash your preview
and then you are done.
So now that you've written the code,
you want your code to be actually cold.
But first,
I'd like to have a brief overview of what
we call document types and also UTIs.
For UTIs, our unique strings that should
be unique across the system
and are prefixed by vendor.
They are defined in the info.playlist
of applications or plug-ins.
and they are registered and
managed by Launch Services.
So in our sample
Quick Cookbook application,
this is an extract of the
Info.plist and this is where we
define our UTI for Recipe documents.
So we use com.apple.recipe.
The next thing you want to do is to
get launch services know your plug-in.
So you have to put it in known locations.
So if your plug-in is generating
thumbnails and previews for documents
that are for your own application,
you should ship it directly into the app
bundle in contents library Quick Look.
But if you want to ship
a standalone plug-in,
you can put it in /libraryquicklook or
/tilda/libraryquicklook and it will be
seen by launch services and registered.
In your plugin,
you specify the UTI you are
generating previews on Sunday for.
In our example,
you can see that we see com.apple.recipe
in our Info.plist of the generator.
The generator contains some
attributes in the Info.plist and I'd
like to show you a couple of them.
First,
we have what we call sizing attributes.
For thumbnails,
you can specify the minimum size from
which the thumbnail is meaningful.
Meaning that if the client requests
a thumbnail smaller than this size,
we won't even code your code and we will
just say that there is no thumbnail.
And for previews,
you can specify a default
size that will be used for the
preview panel when it's opening.
But we have also what we
call running attributes.
So if your code supports
concurrent requests,
you should specify it and it's a good
thing to support concurrent requests.
It's better for performance.
But on the opposite,
if your code needs to be
run on the main thread,
which is a bad thing but sometimes
you don't really have a choice,
you need to specify it
to avoid some problems.
And those are valid for both
thumbnail and preview generations.
So I'd like to quickly talk about
what are options and properties.
Options are given from us to you and
are meant to alter the generation
of previews and thumbnails.
So as an example,
we have the scale factor
option for thumbnails.
On the opposite,
properties are given by your plugin
back to Quick Look to specify
and to give us hints about how to
display the thumbnails or previews.
As examples, for thumbnails,
you can specify a custom extension to
badge on the icon or even a badge image.
For previews,
you can specify a size that will
be used by the preview panel.
And of course,
this size takes priority over
the static size that you may have
defined in the InfoDate playlist.
Optionally,
you can also specify a custom display
name for your preview that will be
shown in the title of the Preview Panel.
I will give you a quick demo on
how to write a Quick Look plugin.
I created a new project
from the Xcode template.
I've added a custom utility class
to parse our recipe documents.
We will first generate the thumbnail.
So this is pretty simple.
Using our utility methods,
we get the image inside the document
and then we give it directly
to Quick Look as a CG image.
So now we want to test that.
And to do that,
we edit the scheme in Xcode
and we add TrailManage.
TrailManage is a tool that is
used to help debug Quick Look.
So we add QL Manage
and we set a couple of,
a few arguments.
So that tells it to generate a thumbnail.
And here you can see that we are
specifically giving it the path
to our generator because it's not
yet registered to launch services.
So we had to specify it manually.
And then this is the
path to our document.
So let's run it.
And we have a nice
thumbnail of our recipe.
So we are happy with that and we will
now implement the preview request.
Similarly, I'm using our utility
methods to get the name,
the content and the image of the preview.
And then we are drawing
using AppKit APIs.
So we have a gradient and other things.
And when we are done,
we flush the CG content.
To test that,
we will edit our scheme and instead
of trying to get a thumbnail,
we will get a preview.
So we just change the options to
get "-p" for preview and we run.
And there we can see we have a nice
preview of a recipe with all steps,
the image and the name.
And we are happy with that,
so we can ship our plug-in.
And we can go back to the slides.
So just to sum it up,
when you want to create
a Quick Look plugin,
you create a new project
from the template in Xcode.
Then you define your document type
in the Info.plist of the plugin.
You implement both, or not,
but it's better to have both
thumbnail and preview functions.
And you can change the
attributes in your Ampho.plist.
So if your code needs to be
run in the main thread or not.
Then you use QLManage
to test it from Xcode.
And to see all the options of QLManage,
you can see its documentation.
And finally,
you want to test it in real conditions,
so you deploy your plug-in and
you test it directly in Finder.
And when you're good with that,
you can ship it.
So where do you go from here?
Well, first,
we want you to use to integrate
Quick Look inside your application.
If your application manipulates files,
there are no reasons for you not
to show the content of the files.
And Quick Look is a great way to do this.
So use the preview panel,
use the preview view,
use the preview controller.
In Mac OS X,
ask Quick Look to provide thumbnails
for all your files and documents.
But don't be just a consumer,
although be part of the process.
If your application creates files,
you should provide a generator for them.
That will make your document
visible everywhere in Mac OS X,
from the Finder to
Mail to all applications.
When you do so, make sure that your
thumbnails look beautiful.
You want them to look amazing in the
Finder next to all other documents.
And of course, make sure that you
have good performances.
Our computers are getting
faster and faster,
but we don't want to waste resources.
If you need more information,
you can contact our evangelist
Bill Dernay or you can go
to the usual Apple website.
Thank you all for coming and
have a great week at WWDC.